Notes while reading All THings are Too Small By Becca Rothfeld

"But "let people enjoy things" is usually deployed to imply that all art objects are created equal and any suggestion to the contrary smacks of snobbery." (pg 25) I don't completely agree with this. The issue is not sharing your critiques of an artwork, it becomes a problem when you start judging the consumer for liking a certain artwork...

"Art is a daughter of freedom, responding not to the demands of matter, but to the necessity in our minds. For the present, need prevails, and bends a sunken humanity to its tyrannical yoke.
Utility is the great idol of the age, to which all powers are in thrall and all talent must pay homage.
On this crude scale the spiritual virtues of art have no weight and, bereft of all encouragement, it disappears from the tumultuous market of our century." This I agree with... art can be created regardless what of economic status you have, but I imagine it must be easier to create when your body  

"Economic justice would surely improve the quality of art, for all the reasons Marx and Schiller identified. Talented people would be less frequently stymied and have more opportunities to hone their gifts.
Aesthetic culture as a whole would improve if audiences had the time and the education to cultivate their tastes. But if democratizing politics would go some way toward improving culture, the reverse does not hold: democratizing culture has gone no way toward improving politics."

It is easy to see why __ without an agenda is more _____, but what, exactly makes it more ethical? (pg 219)

It it a choice or a requirement? Or is tia  gift, a kind of grace, a form of hospitableness, openness, welcome

"I sitll reach for him not our of duty but out of desire"

"even in utopia, we will be at the mercy of unpredictable forces. we will be free only to surrender. there will be nothing else we can do, but there will also be nothing else we can want"

As we have seen, Barthes suggests that waiting is constitutive of love - the lover is "the one who waits" and if waiting is an essentially female posture, even for men, then love proves to be a fundamentally feminine exercise.
  Historically, the discourse of absence is carried on by the Woman... It is Woman who gives shape to absence, elaborates its fiction, for she has time to do so.... It follows that in any who utters the other's absence something feminine is declared: this ma who waits and who suffers from his waitinf is miracously feminized. A man is not feminized because he is incerted but because he is in love.

To be in love is precisely to be someone for whom everything signifies, someone for whom nothing is mere veneer any longer. When I woke up, I grabbed for my phone to check on Rachel. When she'd posted, I was thrilled; when she hadn't, I pouted. (pg 287)

My take:
When you're in love, you become the person who waits for things like texts to things like emotional reassruance and presence. The feeling of longing is the feeling of loving. Through time, women are culturally associated with this. Now that we've created that culture, when anyone flals in love, they enter the state of waiting, and now they've taken on a feminine role. 

Why isn't thinking "big" enough? And what exactly is this mysterious "direct experience," "pure awareness," "awareness itself"? Isn't there a pane of expectation interposed between the self and the world no matter what we do, and isn't that pane the self? What about the wealth of psychological research treating the phenomenon of "cognitive penetration," wherein perception itself is permeated with conceptualization, such that if I've been primed to expect a banana, I actually see a gray object as yellow, etc? (pg 240)
