Question: How can an immaterial soul interact with the body?
Helpful links: https://iep.utm.edu/rene-descartes/

P1: We can't imagine the body as thinking
C: All our thoughts belong to the soul

Part I: The Passions in General and incidentally the whole nature of man
Me: Makes me wonder what the brain is. Is the soul then like a tinkerer
  in the brain, and then when the soul is thinking it's pressing buttons
  in the brain and wracking through neurons?

  4. Heat and movement come from the body, thoughts come from the soul
  Mind-body problem in philosophy. Since we can't imagine 
  matter thinking, and since we see
  non-thinking things producing physical effects, there must 
  be two completely separate substances - thinking substance 
  (mind/soul) and extended substance (body).

  dead person: source of its movement has stopped working.

   
 8. The root source of all these functions
    "So although I have already
touched on this in other writings, I’ll say something about
it here. Just this: while we are alive there is a continual
heat in our hearts, a kind of fire maintained there by the
blood from the veins. This fire is the physical cause of all the
movements of our limbs"

  Animal spirits? The most subtle particles in the blood, filtered and refined
  as blood in th heart. The interface between the soul and the body

  17. 2 main kinds of thoughts: actions and passions of the soul

  violitions: actions of the will
, they come directly from the soul without input from anything else

  perceptions or items of knowledge: the soul's passions
    received

18. The will: action 19. we can't will anything without perceiving that we are willing it

20. imagining and other thoughts
      to percieve the things in our imagination, is a will.
    we will that we perceive our imagined images

  just kidding " what we choose to imagine" is the action

Descartes think the pineal gland has a lot of soul stuff going on in it

  30. very revealing about descartes' formulation of the soul
the soul is joined to the whole body

  enter strict dualism

  can't be said ot exist in one part of the body

  P1: THe body is a unity, indivisible
  The organs are arranged so that the removal of one makes the whole defective
  P2: The soul doesn't have a relation to matter
  There's no such thing as half a soul, the soul doesn't shrink when you amputate someone

But the soul relates to the body as an organized system, the assemblage of organs working together

Shoutout pineal gland, shoutout expressive writing

  33. THe heart is a means of feeling passion just as the nerves are a means of feeling pain in the foot
  but in those casesz, the change of heart isn't actually a change in heart, the pain isn't actually in the foot, 
  when we see stars in the sky the stars are in the sky not in our eyes

LEFT OFF , START AT SECTION 34

42. How memeory works
Descartes lowkey got it with the whole neurons being refired and then that triggering memories

Word: Volition- act of the will

44. Volition being tied to things that then indirectly triggered movement of other orans

Nature: Our volition to look at something far away, then causes pupils to enlarge

47. Conflict between the spirit and the soul

48. You can tell who has a strong soul based on the outcome of the conflicts between the spirit and the soul

animal spirits then move the fibers extending to the brain through tubes of nerves

this can cause emotions to rise as well

50. a soul training arc

Even those who have the weakest souls could acquire absolute mastery over all their passionsif they worked hard enough at training and guiding them.


Part II: The Number and Order of the Passions and explanation of the six basic passions

pretty much just that, he goes through wonder, love, hatred, desire, joy, sadness

wonder: novelty, no change in heart or blood (animal spirits)

we wonder at what's extraordinary (helpful for learning and memory)

Love and hatred are emotions that occur in the present

What are the two types of love? concupiscent: loving something that you want to have it, benevolent loving is when you love something that you want to wish it well

What is pure love? He gives an example of a drunkard for wine, a miser for money, ambitious man for glory, and a good father's love for his children

What is the difference between simple affection, friendship, and devotion? We have to measure the person's esteem for the loved subject, the person's esteem for the themself. < is simple affection, = friendship, > devotion

84. There are fewer kinds of hatred than love.

85. Attraction and revulsion

We can either judge something on external sense or internal sense (the soul's reason)

He claims for most likelinesses for a bird, a flower, a nice day it's simple affection, not anything more than friendship

As opposed to desire with a passion directed at the future

Question: (that he answers) how does the soul relate to love?

biological explanation for laughter

Why are emotions good?

they strengthen and prolong thoughts that it is good for the soul to have and
which otherwise might easily be wiped out.

87. Desire is a passion that has no opposite

Question: WHat about apathy

91. Joy and sadness are recognized as things of its own

92. Are intellectual goods/cognitive activies obviously tied to the soul, your own thoughts and mental clarity belong to you , hence as its own

95. feeling joy or harm even when the cuase isn't recognized as being "of its own"

97. the physical biological effects of love
  This part is cute! He notices the heart beating faster and fuller, and how food is digested better when someone is experiencing love

then he doesn the same until section 102

102 until 106 he's talking about movements in the spirits and blood behind each passion

129 and 130. How crying works

Blood, animal spirits, vapors, sweat, and tears are all the same fundamental substance in different states 
Ice, Water vapor, water itself kind of like that

when we cry the tear duct/pore narrows so the vaporous animal spirits liquify and then leave the body as tears

137. why do we have emotions
they're fundamentally designed to improve our bodies
emotions are a nature's sophisticated early warning of communicating with the rational soul to protect the physical body
emotions create a motivation between the body's needs and rational action

146. when life feels out of our control
Somethings are genuinely determined by our free will by God's providence
Some things are predetermined external forces, other people's actions
Most things in life are a mix of both
we should focus our desires on things that we can control 

SECTION 147

we recognize an abstract good or evil as belonging to the person and closely related to the person's identity and circumstance

it's like an encylopedia for a theory of how emotions work and the world of emotions

fun read
